The RPwD Act, 2016 was enacted on 28.12.2016 which came into force from 19.04.2017. The salient features of the Act are:-

Responsibility has been cast upon the appropriate governments to take effective measures to ensure that the persons with disabilities enjoy their rights equally with others.
Disability has been defined based on an evolving and dynamic concept.
The Act covers the following specified disabilities:-
Physical Disability
Locomotor Disability
Leprosy Cured Person
Cerebral Palsy
Dwarfism
Muscular Dystrophy
Acid Attack Victims
Visual Impairment
Blindness
Low Vission
Hearing Impairment
Deaf
Hard of Hearing
Speech and Language Disability
Intellectual Disability
 Specific Learning Disabilities
Autism Spectrum Disorder
Mental Behaviour (Mental Illness)
Disability caused due to-
Chronic Neurological Conditions such as-
Multiple Sclerosis
Parkinson’s Disease
 Blood Disorder-
Haemophilia
Thalassemia
Sickle Cell Disease
Multiple Disabilities
Additional benefits have been provided for persons with benchmark disabilities and those with high support needs.
Every child with benchmark disability between the age group of 6 and 18 years shall have the right to free education.
5% reservation in seats in Government and Government aided higher educational institutions for persons with benchmark disabilities.
Stress has been given to ensure accessibility in public buildings (both Government and private) in a prescribed time-frame.
4% reservation in Government jobs for certain persons or class of persons with benchmark disability.
The Act provides for grant of guardianship by District Court or any authority designated by the State Government under which there will be joint decision – making between the guardian and the persons with disabilities.
Broad based Central & State Advisory Boards on Disability to be set up as policy making bodies.
The Act provides for strengthening of the Office of Chief Commissioner of Persons with Disabilities and State Commissioners of Disabilities which will act as regulatory bodies and Grievance Redressal agencies and also monitor implementation of the Act. These Offices will be assisted by an Advisory Committee comprising of experts in various disabilities.
Creation of National and State Fund to provide financial support to the persons with disabilities.
The Act provides for penalties for offences committed against persons with disabilities.
Designated special Courts to handle cases concerning violation of rights of PwDs.

Prohibition of Child Marriage Act
The Child Marriage Restraint Act, 1929, was amended in 1978, where the lawful age of marriage of girls was increased from 15 to 18 years and of boys from 18 to 21 years. The Indian Government enacted the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act of 2006 by replacing the earlier legislation of the Child Marriage Restraint Act, 1929, to ensure that child marriage is eradicated from within the society. In this article, we look at the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act in detail.

To know more about labour laws and rights in India:

Custody of Children in India
Child Labour Law & Regulations in India
Equal Remuneration Act
Objectives of the Act
The primary object of the Act is to prohibit solemnization of child marriage. This Act is armed with enabling provisions to prohibit child marriages and provide relief to victims and enhance punishment for those who abet, promote or solemnise such marriages. As per the act, the age of marriage for boys is 21, and for girls, it is 18, and any marriage of people below this age will be considered as a child marriage which is illegal, an offence and is punishable under the law.

The below following are the objectives of this legislation

The Act makes child marriage voidable.
The Act also allows for maintenance and residence for the girl till her remarriage from the male contracting party or his parents.
All the punishments contemplated under the Act are quite enhanced as compared to the 1929 Act.
Applicability of the Act
This Act applies to the following aspects that are listed below:

It applies to all India citizens irrespective of religion and beyond India.
This Act does not apply to the State of Jammu and Kashmir and renunciants of the Union territory of Pondicherry.
Implementation of the Act
Prevention
The law seeks to prohibit child marriages by making specific actions punishable and by appointing certain authorities responsible for the prohibition and prevention of child marriages. These persons are responsible for ensuring that the Act is implemented. Child Marriage Prohibition Officers (CMPO) are to be appointed in every state to prohibit child marriages, ensure the protection of the victims as well as prosecution of the offenders. The Act lays down penal provisions for those who solemnise child marriages. The Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, under section 11 provides punishment for those who permit and promote child marriages.

Protection
The law provides for all support and aid including medical aid, legal aid, counselling and rehabilitation support to children once they are rescued. It gives legal status to all children born from child marriages and makes provisions for their custody and maintenance. It provides for the residence and maintenance of the female contracting party.

Prosecution of Offenders
The law provides for punishment for a male above 18 years of age marrying a child. The Child Marriage Prohibition Officer has been empowered to provide necessary and legal aid to victims of child marriage and to produce children in need of care and protection before the Child Welfare Committee or a First Class Judicial Magistrate, where there is no Child Welfare Committee.